all right this is a screencast on using
the law of reflection a protractor and
some very careful measurements to
predict the path that light would take
so if I had a light beam coming in from
this direction reflecting off of a
mirror which is represented by the this
dark line here what would the path of
light do this is our incident beam or
our incident ray and everything is
always going to be relative to the
normal line so you're going to draw a
normal line at the point where the light
ray strikes the mirror the normal line
is a line an imaginary line that is 90
degrees so I put a mark there at the 90
degree that mark there and where the Ray
hits the mirror are the two lines that I
need to make my normal line are the two
points that I need to make my normal one
I usually make my normal line as a
dotted line because it's a reference the
light never actually follows this path
it's just a reference point for for
everything so now I measure my angle
relative to the normal line I measure
the angle that the incident beam makes
with the normal so this is 10 20 35 36
degrees so the angle of incidence
or theta sub I is equal to 36 degrees so
once I have my angle of incidence I can
then mark my angle of reflection my
angle of reflection is going to be 36
degrees in the other direction so 10 20
35 36 degrees will be right here so
again two points show me where to put my
line where the race rikes the mirror and
then the second point is there this is
my brief my reflected ray and again this
angle theta sub R is equal to 36 degrees
let me carefully check these so I line
up my protract there now if you're off
by in the challenges if you're off by
one degree that means you're getting a B
instead of an A so you have to be very
precise in these measurements so this is
10 20 35 36 and this one 10 20 35 36 so
let's see how close I came to making an
accurate prediction I put my target here
I'll put the mirror on the paper
carefully positioning that
there's my mirror let's see how
reflected ray does I line it up with the
incident look at that
almost perfect not quite but that's the
process that you go through in order to
determine the reflected or the angle of
reflection now while it's true that this
angle and this angle are the same when
we start doing refraction you can't
measure it relative to the surface
everything should always be measured
relative to the normal so your angle is
you wanna be measuring this angle in the
same always relative to the blind
perpendicular to the surface and that's
it